- [Instructor] Let's now look at the customized mapping
option that we have for null serializations.
By default the serialization of null
values does not happen.
So, if you have any property, which is set to null,
JSON binding API is going to skip the
serialization process for such things.
The reason that it is done is that if you have too many
properties with the null values, then the payload that
you're trying to send across, which is the JSON
representation, will unnecessarily grow a little longer,
which is why null values are skipped.
However, this may not be the intended behavior
that you want for your application.
So in cases where you want that the null values are
also considered during the serialization process,
we have certain ways around it to do the necessary mapping.
So let's see how to do that.
The first option is you have the JSONbNillable
annotation, which you can attach on
the class or the package in full level,
and get all the properties that are null in that particular
java object to be considered for serialization.
So let's try this out, let's go back to the IDE.
And let me open, let's see the product bin.
And at the top of this class, I'm going
to attach the JSONbNillable annotation.
That's the thing to do.
Now we write a test class and test this out.
Let's hit new java class, Test Nillable,
take the main method, now you'll get the empty JSONb
which is the default engine instance.
And let's hit
JSONbBuilder, the business as usual that we do
for all the demos, to get the builder
and create that empty instance first.
And then let's make a product object quickly,
I'll say product, data reference, and say new product.
So what I'll do is I will just make an empty object.
Now if you go the the product bin, let's
just drive us to the product bin,
and you have a lot of things there.
You have ID, name, manufacturer, shipping company, price.
And then, in one of our earlier videos,
we had also attached JSONbTransient.
So momentarily for this demo, I'm just going to
come and out this JSONbTransient
annotation, we don't need that.
Let's save this.
So what we are trying to look at is we have int,
then we have three Strings, and we have a double.
Now the default values for int and double will be
zero and zero point zero, respectively.
But for the name, the manufacturer,
and the shipping company, all of these will be null values.
So let's see how the behavior is during
serialization now that we have annotated
this class with this annotation.
So let's go to the test class,
and let's hit sys out, and we'll just
serialize that product object.
We have to take the instance,
and then say to JSON, and pass in the product object.
And let's run this quickly and
see for ourselves what happens.
Yes, so now do you that see along with the ID
and the price, which definitely have legal values,
the rest of the null values also
turned up in the JSON representation.
So if you want this behavior, then you
use the JSON B Nillable annotation.
However if you do not use this,
these null values will be skipped.
So what I'm going to do is, I'm just
going to go back to the product bin,
and let's just comment out this annotation
and then look at the default behavior for ourselves.
Yes, so when you're not annotating it,
then it's only going to consider those values
which indeed have certain meaningful values, okay?
So that's the first option, you either use
JSON Nillable directly on the
class, or there's another option.
So you can also use JSON B property on a
particular property and give it an extra
parameter of nillable equal to true.
Set this on the field, and only that property
with the null value will be
considered for serialization.
So let's come back,
and let's say for shipping company on line number 23,
I'm going to say JSONbProperty,
and set the nillable parameter to true.
Now let's go back to the test class,
and now let's give values.
Let's give certain values.
So I'm going to invoke the other parameter
constructor that we have, which is this one.
So let's say ID is 34, and name is ABC,
any data that you wish to give,
the prize twenty three dollars,
then the manufacturer XYZ,
and the shipping company will be null,
that's what we want, okay?
And now let's see how this behaves.
Yes, so the shipping company, in spite of being null,
is still considered for serialization because we
went ahead and annotated their property
with the JSONbProperty annotation
setting the nillable equal to true, okay?
So if you actually go ahead even set the
other property as null, let's say I set this to null,
and see whether that gets considered.
So if run the file, and check the output, yeah.
So you did not get any other null value
which was considered for serialization
but shipping company was, because we
annotated it with the concern annotation.
So that's the other option that you have.
And of course, when you have annotations they are the
comprised customizations that you can do.
But there is an option for the run time customization
as well with the JSONbConfig object,
on it there's an API with null values.
Set that to true, and you will get the same behavior.
So if I go back, let's avoid trying to do this
at the annotation level as I'm going to comment this out.
And what we'll do is we'll go to the object mapper.
And down there on line 31, I'm just going to
comment line 31 because we don't need the
property visibility strategy to be tested right now.
So on line number 33, I'm going to put a comment first.
So this is for property nillable, okay?
And what are we going to do, we are going to take
the config object, and it has
got an API with null values.
So set this to true.
Alight?
And let's just come back to the test and get that
config object on line number 19 first.
It has to be fetched from the object mapper,
invoke the meta which will get you the config object,
and then let's run this.
Yeah?
So you still see that you're getting the
shipping company and the name,
so whatever values were set null,
are yes, they are considered during the serialization
even with the run time customization option.
So that's how you can handle your
null values in your application.